Adding Corporate Proxy Server Section (#560)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/contribute/mobile/push-notifications/corporate-proxy.md

---

> title: "Corporate Proxy Server"

Reviewer: This page is about how to receive mobile push notifications when a corporate proxy server is required - not so much about the corporate proxy server itself.

Would you be open to suggesting a couple of options for a title that best reflects the contents?

Another option may be to include this section within the "Push Notification Service" page https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/mobile/push-notifications/service/

Author: Sure:

- PNS with Corporate Proxy
- Post Proxy Relay
- Corporate Proxy Solutions

Reviewer: I like "PNS with Corporate Proxy" @faase 

"Push Notification Service with Corporate Proxy" if it fits in the sidebar,

Author: I asked and it should wrap. Using `Push Notification Service with Corporate Proxy`

date: 2020-03-09T11:35:32

> weight: 3

Reviewer: The weight is currently set to "3", which means this will appear as the third item on the TOC

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13119842/76691714-5dfdee80-6624-11ea-8dde-a446512a87c2.png)

I'm thinking we'd add it as the 4th item (after Push Notification Service), so the weight for this page would be a 4. As part of this PR, the weight for [migrating CGM to FCM](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/mobile/push-notifications/migrate-gcm-fcm/) would need to be changed to a 5.

> subsection: "Setup Push Notifications"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
subsection: "Set Up Push Notifications"
```

Reviewer: @justinegeffen Did we yet implement a change in our guidelines to use sentence case in headings?

Reviewer 2: I've just added it to the PR.

---

> ### How do I receive mobile push notification if my IT policy requires the use of a corporate proxy server?

Reviewer: Depending on what we choose for the title, we may want to update this introduction to represent a more standalone page instead of an FAQ

When your IT policy requires a corporate proxy to scan and audit all outbound traffic the following options are available:

> ###### 1 - Deploy Mattermost with connection restricted post-proxy relay in DMZ or a trusted cloud environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###### Option 1: Deploy Mattermost with connection restricted post-proxy relay in DMZ or a trusted cloud environment
```

Author: afaik these are more three different situations then multiple options?

Reviewer: We say `the following options are available:`, but I'm not sure we've used "Option X" format before. @justinegeffen wondering if we leave unchanged?

Reviewer 2: Good question. I *think* I have seen this in other docs but can't link them off the top of my head and the style guide doesn't specify whether we use it or not. In this context it works and I'd say we can leave it unchanged.

Some legacy corporate proxy configurations may be incompatible with the requirements of modern mobile architectures, such as the requirement of HTTP/2 requests from Apple to send push notifications to iOS devices.

> In this case, a [post-proxy relay](https://docs.mattermost.com/overview/faq.html#what-are-pre-proxy-and-post-proxy-relays) can be deployed to take messages from the Mattermost server passing through your corporate IT proxy in the incompatible format, e.g. HTTP/1.1, transform it to HTTP/2 and relay it to its final destination, either to the [Apple Push Notification Service (APNS)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1) and [Google Fire Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) services. 

Reviewer: Instead of taking the admin to docs for the definition of a post-proxy relay, let define it in this section

Author: afaik the sentence describes the functionality of a post-proxy relay, the link only exists to reference it to where it was first introduced, sort of like a wiki article linking a buzzword.

Reviewer: True. I wonder if we can simplify the sentence to read `In this case, a proxy can be deployed to ...`

Reviewer: ^let's do the simplification as long as it keeps the text accurate

Author: I'm at a loss of knowledge here, whom would I ask if this will keep the text accurate?

Reviewer: @faase For this iteration, we can keep this as. It includes the definition in brackets, so it's technically accurate. We can simplify later if needed

```
In this case, a **post-proxy relay** (which accepts network traffic from a corporate proxy such as NGINX, and transmits it to the final destination) can be deployed to take messages from the Mattermost server passing through your corporate IT proxy in the incompatible format, e.g. HTTP/1.1, transform it to HTTP/2 and relay it to its final destination, either to the [Apple Push Notification Service (APNS)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1) and [Google Fire Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) services. 
```

> In this case, a [post-proxy relay](https://docs.mattermost.com/overview/faq.html#what-are-pre-proxy-and-post-proxy-relays) can be deployed to take messages from the Mattermost server passing through your corporate IT proxy in the incompatible format, e.g. HTTP/1.1, transform it to HTTP/2 and relay it to its final destination, either to the [Apple Push Notification Service (APNS)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1) and [Google Fire Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) services. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, a [post-proxy relay](https://docs.mattermost.com/overview/faq.html#what-are-pre-proxy-and-post-proxy-relays) can be deployed to take messages from the Mattermost server passing through your corporate IT proxy in the incompatible format, e.g. HTTP/1.1, transform it to HTTP/2 and relay it to its final destination, either to the [Apple Push Notification Service (APNS)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1) or[Google Fire Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) services. 
```

> In this case, a [post-proxy relay](https://docs.mattermost.com/overview/faq.html#what-are-pre-proxy-and-post-proxy-relays) can be deployed to take messages from the Mattermost server passing through your corporate IT proxy in the incompatible format, e.g. HTTP/1.1, transform it to HTTP/2 and relay it to its final destination, either to the [Apple Push Notification Service (APNS)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1) and [Google Fire Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) services. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, a [post-proxy relay](https://docs.mattermost.com/overview/faq.html#what-are-pre-proxy-and-post-proxy-relays) can be deployed to take messages from the Mattermost server passing through your corporate IT proxy in the incompatible format, e.g. HTTP/1.1, transform it to HTTP/2 and relay it to its final destination, either to the [Apple Push Notification Service (APNS)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1) or [Google Fire Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) services. 
```

> In this case, a proxy can be deployed toIn this case, a [post-proxy relay](https://docs.mattermost.com/overview/faq.html#what-are-pre-proxy-and-post-proxy-relays) can be deployed to take messages from the Mattermost server passing through your corporate IT proxy in the incompatible format, e.g. HTTP/1.1, transform it to HTTP/2 and relay it to its final destination, either to the [Apple Push Notification Service (APNS)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1) or [Google Fire Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, a **post-proxy relay** (which accepts network traffic from a corporate proxy such as NGINX, and transmits it to the final destination) can be deployed to take messages from the Mattermost server passing through your corporate IT proxy in the incompatible format, e.g. HTTP/1.1, transform it to HTTP/2 and relay it to its final destination, either to the [Apple Push Notification Service (APNS)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1) and [Google Fire Cloud Messaging (FCM)](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging) services.
```

Author: my bad, i forgot to push this edit.

> Ths **post-proxy relay** [can be configured using the Mattermost Push Proxy installation guide](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/mobile/push-notifications/service/) with connection restrictions to meet your custom security and compliance requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **post-proxy relay** [can be configured using the Mattermost Push Proxy installation guide](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/mobile/push-notifications/service) with connection restrictions to meet your custom security and compliance requirements.
```

> In place of a DMZ you can also host in a trusted cloud environment such as AWS or Azure depending on your internal approvals and policies. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also host in a trusted cloud environment such as AWS or Azure in place of a DMZ (this option may depend on your organization's internal policies). 
```

> ![image](/img/mobile/post-proxy-relay.png)

Reviewer: Image not rendering in preview mode, but I think that's just due to the nature of the GitHub preview rendering. Should work in developers.mattermost.com once pushed live.

Author: How should I proceed from here?

Reviewer: We can leave it unchanged in this PR, and check the image renders once it's live in developers.mattermost.com

> ###### 2 - Whitelist Mattermost push notification proxy to bypass your corporate proxy server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###### Option 2: Whitelist Mattermost push notification proxy to bypass your corporate proxy server
```

Author: leaving unchanged as mentioned above

Depending on your internal IT policy and approved waivers/exceptions, you may choose to deploy the [Mattermost Push Proxy](https://developers.mattermost.com/contribute/mobile/push-notifications/service/) to connect directly to [Apple Push Notification Service (APNS)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH8-SW1) without your corporate proxy.

You will need to [whitelist one subdomain and one port from Apple](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/CommunicatingwithAPNs.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH11-SW1) for this option:

 - Development server: `api.development.push.apple.com:443`
 - Production server: `api.push.apple.com:443`

> ###### 3 - Run App Store versions of the Mattermost mobile apps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###### Option 3: Run App Store versions of the Mattermost mobile apps
```

Author: leaving unchanged as mentioned above

You can use the mobile applications hosted by Mattermost in the [Apple App Store](https://apps.apple.com/ca/app/mattermost/id1257222717) or [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mattermost.rn) and connect with [Mattermost Hosted Push Notification Service (HPNS)](https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/mobile-hpns.html) through your corporate proxy.

> The use of hosted applications by Mattermost [can be deployed with Enterprise Mobility Management solutions via AppConfig](https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/mobile-appconfig.html) but do not support wrapping.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The use of hosted applications by Mattermost [can be deployed with Enterprise Mobility Management solutions via AppConfig](https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/mobile-appconfig.html). Wrapping is not supported with this option.
```
